cloud: support generating endpoints automatically (#14244)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md

## Before you begin

> - Before you create an endpoint, make sure that the target table exists in your target database of the target cluster, and that the columns of the target table are already defined.

Author: ```suggestion
- Before you create an endpoint, make sure that the target table for the endpoint exists in your target database of the target cluster, and that the columns of the target table are already defined.
```

> - Before you manage an endpoint, make sure that you have created a cluster and a Data App. For more information, see [Create a Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md#create-a-data-app).

Author: ```suggestion
- Before you create an endpoint, make sure that you have created a cluster and a Data App. For more information, see [Create a Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md#create-a-data-app).
```

- Before you call an endpoint, make sure that you have created an API key in the Data App. For more information, see [Create an API key](/tidb-cloud/data-service-api-key.md#create-an-api-key).

## Create an endpoint

> In Data Service, you can either either generate an endpoint automatically or create an endpoint manually.

Author: ```suggestion
In Data Service, you can either either generate endpoints automatically or create endpoints manually.
```

> **Tip:**
>

> > You can also create an endpoint from a SQL file in Chat2Query (beta). For more details, see [Generate an endpoint from a SQL file](/tidb-cloud/explore-data-with-chat2query.md#generate-an-endpoint-from-a-sql-file).

Author: ```suggestion
> You can also create an endpoint from a SQL file in Chat2Query (beta). For more information, see [Generate an endpoint from a SQL file](/tidb-cloud/explore-data-with-chat2query.md#generate-an-endpoint-from-a-sql-file).
```

### Generate an endpoint automatically

> In TiDB Cloud Data Services, you can generate one or multiple endpoints automatically in one go as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
In TiDB Cloud Data Service, you can generate one or multiple endpoints automatically in one go as follows:
```

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service) page of your project.

> 2. In the left pane, locate your target Data App, click **+** to the right of the App name, and then click **Auto-Generate HTTP Endpoint**. The dialog for endpoint creation is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
2. In the left pane, locate your target Data App, click **+** to the right of the App name, and then click **Generate Endpoint**. The dialog for endpoint creation is displayed.
```

3. In the dialog, do the following:

>     1. Select the target cluster, database, and table for the endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
    1. Select the target cluster, database, and table for the endpoint to be generated.
```

        > **Note:**
        >

>         > The **Table** drop-down list does not include system tables and empty tables without column definitions.

Author: ```suggestion
        > The **Table** drop-down list includes only user-defined tables with at least one column, excluding system tables and any tables without a column definition.
```

    2. Select the desired operations for the endpoints.

        - To create one endpoint only, choose one operation.

>         - To create multiple endpoints, choose multiple operations. For each operation you selected, TiDB Cloud will create a corresponding endpoint.

Author: Users might not know that each operation they selected will generate an endpoint.

>     3. (Optional) Configure the timeout and the tag for the endpoints.

Author: ```suggestion
    3. (Optional) Configure a timeout and tag for the operations. All generated HTTP endpoints will automatically inherit the configured properties, which can be modified later as needed.
```

>     4. (Optional) Choose whether to enable **Deploy HTTP Endpoint**. Note that enabling this option will skip the draft review process and deploy the generated HTTP endpoints directly.

Author: ```suggestion
    4. (Optional) The **Deploy HTTP Endpoint** option (disabled by default) allows you to choose whether to enable the direct deployment of the automatically generated HTTP endpoints. When it is enabled, the draft review process will be skipped, and the endpoints will be deployed immediately without further manual review or approval.
```

4. Click **Generate**, and then refresh the webpage of the TiDB Cloud console.

>     The generated endpoints is displayed at the top of the endpoint list.

Author: ```suggestion
    The generated endpoint is displayed at the top of the endpoint list.
```

> 4. Click **Generate**, and then refresh the webpage of the TiDB Cloud console.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click **Generate**.
```

5. Check the generated endpoint name, SQL statements, properties, and parameters of the new endpoint.

>     - Endpoint name: the generated endpoint name is in the `/<selected table name>` format, and the request method (such as `GET`, `POST`, and `PUT`) is displayed before the name.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Endpoint name: the generated endpoint name is in the `/<selected table name>` format, and the request method (such as `GET`, `POST`, and `PUT`) is displayed before the name. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Create**, the generated endpoint is displayed as `POST /sample-table`.
```

>     - Endpoint name: the generated endpoint name is in the `/<selected table name>` format, and the request method (such as `GET`, `POST`, and `PUT`) is displayed before the name. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Create**, the generated endpoint is displayed as `POST /sample-table`.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Endpoint name: the generated endpoint name is in the `-<selected table name>` format, and the request method (such as `GET`, `POST`, and `PUT`) is displayed before the name. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Create**, the generated endpoint is displayed as `POST -sample-table`.
```

> 

Author: OK. Let me check through the usage and unify them.

> 

Author: updated in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14244/commits/670cef6ebb7889a41fcd3676a1d7cd78f47df680

>         - If a batch operation is selected, the endpoint name is the plural format of the table name. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Batch Create**, you can find the generated `POST /sample-tables` endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
        - If a batch operation is selected, the endpoint name is in the `/<selected table name>s` format. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Batch Create**, the generated endpoint is displayed as `POST /sample-tables`.
```

>         - If a batch operation is selected, the endpoint name is in the `/<selected table name>s` format. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Batch Create**, the generated endpoint is displayed as `POST /sample-tables`.

Author: ```suggestion
        - If a batch operation is selected, the endpoint name is in the `-<selected table name>s` format. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Batch Create**, the generated endpoint is displayed as `POST -sample-tables`.
```

>         - If there is already an endpoint with the same request method and the `/<selected table name>` name, TiDB Cloud will also append `_copy` to the name of the generated endpoint. For example, `/sample-tables_copy`.

Author: ```suggestion
        - If there is already an endpoint with the same request method and endpoint name (`/<selected table name>`), TiDB Cloud will also append `_copy` to the name of the generated endpoint. For example, `/sample-table_copy`.
```

>         - If there is already an endpoint with the same request method and endpoint name (`/<selected table name>`), TiDB Cloud will also append `_copy` to the name of the generated endpoint. For example, `/sample-table_copy`.

Author: ```suggestion
        - If there is already an endpoint with the same request method and endpoint name (`-<selected table name>`), TiDB Cloud will also append `_copy` to the name of the generated endpoint. For example, `-sample-table_copy`.
```

>     - SQL statements: TiDB Cloud automatically writes SQL statements for the generated endpoints according to the table columns and your selected endpoint operations. You can click the endpoint name to view the SQL statements in the middle area of the page.

Author: ```suggestion
    - SQL statements: TiDB Cloud automatically writes SQL statements for the generated endpoints according to the table columns and your selected endpoint operations. You can click the endpoint name to view its SQL statements in the middle area of the page.
```

>     - SQL statements: TiDB Cloud automatically writes SQL statements for the generated endpoints according to the table columns and your selected endpoint operations. You can click the endpoint name to view its SQL statements in the middle area of the page.

Author: ```suggestion
    - SQL statements: TiDB Cloud automatically writes SQL statements for the generated endpoints according to the table column specifications and the selected endpoint operations. You can click on the endpoint name to view its SQL statement in the middle section of the endpoint page.
```

    - Endpoint properties: TiDB Cloud automatically configures the endpoint path, request method, and timeout according to your selection. You can find the properties in the right pane of the page.

>     - Endpoint parameters: TiDB Cloud automatically configures parameters for the endpoint using `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request methods.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Endpoint parameters: TiDB Cloud automatically configures parameters for endpoints that use `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request methods.
```

>     - Endpoint properties: TiDB Cloud automatically configures the endpoint path, request method, and timeout according to your selection. You can find the properties in the right pane of the page.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Endpoint properties: TiDB Cloud automatically configures the endpoint path, request method, timeout, and tag according to your selection. You can find the properties in the right pane of the page.
```

> 6. If you want to modify the generated endpoint name, SQL statements, properties, and parameters of the new endpoint, see instructions in [Develop an endpoint](#deploy-an-endpoint).

Author: ```suggestion
6. If you wish to modify the details of the generated endpoint, such as its name, SQL statement, properties, or parameters, please refer to the instructions provided in [Develop an endpoint](#deploy-an-endpoint).
```

### Create an endpoint manually

To create an endpoint manually, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service) page of your project.

> 2. In the left pane, locate your target Data App, click **+** to the right of the App name, and then click **Create SQL HTTP Endpoint**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. In the left pane, locate your target Data App, click **+** to the right of the App name, and then click **Create Endpoint**.
```

## Before you begin

- Before you create an endpoint, make sure the following:

    - You have created a cluster and a Data App. For more information, see [Create a Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md#create-a-data-app).

>     - The target table for the endpoint exists in your target database of the target cluster, and the columns of the target table are already defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The databases, tables, and columns that the endpoint will operate on are already exist in the target cluster.
```

Author: remove "are"?

- Before you call an endpoint, make sure that you have created an API key in the Data App. For more information, see [Create an API key](/tidb-cloud/data-service-api-key.md#create-an-api-key).

## Create an endpoint

> In Data Service, you can either either generate an endpoint automatically or create an endpoint manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Data Service, you can either generate an endpoint automatically or create an endpoint manually.
```

> **Tip:**
>
> You can also create an endpoint from a SQL file in Chat2Query (beta). For more information, see [Generate an endpoint from a SQL file](/tidb-cloud/explore-data-with-chat2query.md#generate-an-endpoint-from-a-sql-file).

### Generate an endpoint automatically

In TiDB Cloud Data Service, you can generate one or multiple endpoints automatically in one go as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service) page of your project.

> 2. In the left pane, locate your target Data App, click **+** to the right of the App name, and then click **Generate Endpoint**. The dialog for endpoint generation is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
2. In the left pane, locate your target Data App, click **+** to the right of the App name, and then click **Autogenerate Endpoint**. The dialog for endpoint generation is displayed.
```

3. In the dialog, do the following:

    1. Select the target cluster, database, and table for the endpoint to be generated.

        > **Note:**
        >
        > The **Table** drop-down list includes only user-defined tables with at least one column, excluding system tables and any tables without a column definition.

    2. Select at least one HTTP operation (such as `GET Retrieve`, `POST Create`, and `PUT Update`) for the endpoint to be generated.

>         For each operation you selected, TiDB Cloud Data Service will generate a corresponding endpoint. If you have selected a batch operation (such as `POST Batch Create`), the generated endpoint allows you to operate on multiple rows in a single request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        For each operation you selected, TiDB Cloud Data Service generates a corresponding endpoint. If you have selected a batch operation (such as `POST Batch Create`), the generated endpoint lets you operate on multiple rows in a single request.
```

Author: "For each operation you selected, TiDB Cloud Data Service generates a corresponding endpoint." 这里可能有歧义，可能会理解成选择后就会 generate。要不还是用 will generate?

    3. (Optional) Configure a timeout and tag for the operations. All the generated endpoints will automatically inherit the configured properties, which can be modified later as needed.

>     4. (Optional) The **Deploy HTTP Endpoint** option (disabled by default) allows you to choose whether to enable the direct deployment of the generated endpoints. When it is enabled, the draft review process will be skipped, and the generated endpoints will be deployed immediately without further manual review or approval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. (Optional) The **Auto-Deploy Endpoint** option (disabled by default) controls whether to enable the direct deployment of the generated endpoints. When it is enabled, the draft review process is skipped, and the generated endpoints are deployed immediately without further manual review or approval.
```

4. Click **Generate**.

    The generated endpoint is displayed at the top of the endpoint list.

5. Check the generated endpoint name, SQL statements, properties, and parameters of the new endpoint.

    - Endpoint name: the generated endpoint name is in the `-<selected table name>` format, and the request method (such as `GET`, `POST`, and `PUT`) is displayed before the name. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Create**, the generated endpoint is displayed as `POST -sample-table`.

        - If a batch operation is selected, the endpoint name is in the `-<selected table name>s` format. For example, if the selected table name is `sample-table` and the selected operation is **POST Batch Create**, the generated endpoint is displayed as `POST -sample-tables`.

>         - If there is already an endpoint with the same request method and endpoint name (`-<selected table name>`), TiDB Cloud Data Service will also append `_copy` to the name of the generated endpoint. For example, `-sample-table_copy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - If there is already an endpoint with the same request method and endpoint name (`-<selected table name>`), TiDB Cloud Data Service appends `_copy` to the name of the generated endpoint. For example, `-sample-table_copy`.
```

    - SQL statements: TiDB Cloud Data Service automatically writes SQL statements for the generated endpoints according to the table column specifications and the selected endpoint operations. You can click the endpoint name to view its SQL statements in the middle section of the page.
    - Endpoint properties: TiDB Cloud Data Service automatically configures the endpoint path, request method, timeout, and tag according to your selection. You can find the properties in the right pane of the page.
    - Endpoint parameters: TiDB Cloud Data Service automatically configures parameters for the generated endpoints. You can find the parameters in the right pane of the page.

> 6. If you wish to modify the details of the generated endpoint, such as its name, SQL statements, properties, or parameters, refer to the instructions provided in [Develop an endpoint](#deploy-an-endpoint).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If you want to modify the details of the generated endpoint, such as its name, SQL statements, properties, or parameters, refer to the instructions provided in [Develop an endpoint](#deploy-an-endpoint).
```

## Develop an endpoint

For each endpoint, you can write SQL statements to execute on a TiDB cluster, define parameters for the SQL statements, or manage the name and version.

> **Note:**
>
> If you have connected your Data App to GitHub with **Auto Sync & Deployment** enabled, you can also update the endpoint configurations using GitHub. Any changes you made in GitHub will be deployed in TiDB Cloud Data Service automatically. For more information, see [Deploy automatically with GitHub](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-github-connection.md).

### Configure properties

On the right pane of the endpoint details page, you can click the **Properties** tab to view and manage the following properties of the endpoint:

- **Path**: the path that users use to access the endpoint.

    - The combination of the request method and the path must be unique within a Data App.
    - Only letters, numbers, underscores (`_`), and slashes (`/`) are allowed in a path. A path must start with a slash (`/`) and end with a letter, number, or underscore (`_`). For example, `/my_endpoint/get_id`.
    - The length of the path must be less than 64 characters.

> - **Batch Operation**: Controls whether to enable an endpoint with the `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request method to operate in a batch mode. The batch mode allows you to operate on multiple rows in a single request.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Batch Operation**: Controls whether to enable the endpoint to operate in batch mode. When it is enabled, you can operate on multiple rows in a single request. To enable this option, make sure that the request method is `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE`, and that the last SQL statement for the endpoint is an `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE` operation.
```

> - **Batch Operation**: Controls whether to enable the endpoint to operate in batch mode. When it is enabled, you can operate on multiple rows in a single request. To enable this option, make sure that the request method is `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE`, and that the last SQL statement for the endpoint is an `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE` operation.

Reviewer 2: 同上

> - **Batch Operation**: Controls whether to enable the endpoint to operate in batch mode. When it is enabled, you can operate on multiple rows in a single request. To enable this option, make sure that the request method is `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE`, and that the last SQL statement for the endpoint is an `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE` operation.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Batch Operation**: Controls whether to enable the endpoint to operate in batch mode. When it is enabled, you can operate on multiple rows in a single request. To enable this option, make sure that the request method is `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE`.
```

On the right pane of the endpoint details page, you can click the **Properties** tab to view and manage the following properties of the endpoint:

> - **Path**: the path of the endpoint that users use to access the endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Path**: the path that users use to access the endpoint.
```

    - The combination of the request method and the path must be unique within a Data App.

>     - Only letters, numbers, underscores (`_`), and slashes (`/`) are allowed in the path, which must start with a slash (`/`) and end with a letter, number, or underscore (`_`). For example, `/my_endpoint/get_id`.

Reviewer 3: Only letters, numbers, underscores (`_`), and slashes (`/`) are allowed in a path. A path must start with a slash (`/`) and end with a letter, number, or underscore (`_`). For example, `/my_endpoint/get_id`.

>     - Only letters, numbers, underscores (`_`), and slashes (`/`) are allowed in the path, which must start with a slash (`/`) and end with a letter, number, or underscore (`_`). For example, `/my_endpoint/get_id`.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Only letters, numbers, underscores (`_`), and slashes (`/`) are allowed in a path. A path must start with a slash (`/`) and end with a letter, number, or underscore (`_`). For example, `/my_endpoint/get_id`.
```

    - The length of the path must be less than 64 characters.

> - **Batch**: controls whether to enable the batch operations for the endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Batch**: controls whether to enable the batch operations for an endpoint that uses the `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request method. When this option is enabled, you can operate multiple rows in one request.
```

> - **Batch**: controls whether to enable batch operations for an endpoint that uses the `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request method. When this option is enabled, you can operate multiple rows in one request.

Reviewer 3: batch, i am asking lulu if this can be changed to "batch operations" so please consult with Hongmeng and lulu

For the text part

"When enabled allows endpoints with POST PUT or DELETE request methods to operate in a batch mode. Batch mode allows users to operate on multiple rows in a single request."

> - **Batch**: controls whether to enable batch operations for an endpoint that uses the `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request method. When this option is enabled, you can operate multiple rows in one request.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Batch Operation**: controls whether to enable batch operations for an endpoint that uses the `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request method. When this option is enabled, you can operate multiple rows in one request.
```

> - **Batch Operation**: Controls whether to enable endpoints with `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request methods to operate in a batch mode. The batch mode allows you to operate on multiple rows in a single request.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Batch Operation**: Controls whether to enable an endpoint with the `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE` request method to operate in a batch mode. The batch mode allows you to operate on multiple rows in a single request. 
```

- **Endpoint URL**: (read-only) the URL is automatically generated based on the region where the corresponding cluster is located, the service URL of the Data App, and the path of the endpoint. For example, if the path of the endpoint is `/my_endpoint/get_id`, the endpoint URL is `https://<region>.data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<App ID>/endpoint/my_endpoint/get_id`.

- **Request Method**: the HTTP method of the endpoint. The following methods are supported:

>     - `GET`: use this method to query data, such as a `SELECT` statement.

Reviewer 3: query or retrieve data

>     - `GET`: use this method to query data, such as a `SELECT` statement.

Author: ```suggestion
    - `GET`: use this method to query or retrieve data, such as a `SELECT` statement.
```

>     - `POST`: use this method to insert data, such as an `INSERT` statement.

Reviewer 3: insert or create data

>     - `POST`: use this method to insert data, such as an `INSERT` statement.

Author: ```suggestion
    - `POST`: use this method to insert or create data, such as an `INSERT` statement.
```

>     - `PUT`: use this method to update data, such as an `UPDATE` statement.

Reviewer 3: update or modify data

>     - `PUT`: use this method to update data, such as an `UPDATE` statement.

Author: ```suggestion
    - `PUT`: use this method to update or modify data, such as an `UPDATE` statement.
```

    - Minimum value: `1`
    - Unit: millisecond

- **Max Rows**: the maximum number of rows that the endpoint can operate or return.

    - Default value: `50`

>     - Maximum value: `2000` for non-batch endpoints  and `100` for batch endpoints

Author: ```suggestion
    - Maximum value: `100` for batch-enabled endpoints and `2000` for other endpoints
```

>     - Maximum value: `2000` for batch-disabled endpoints and `100` for batch-enabled endpoints

Reviewer 3: 2000 when batch operations are disabled and 100 when batch operations are enabled for the endpoints

>     - Maximum value: `2000` for batch-disabled endpoints and `100` for batch-enabled endpoints

Author: ```suggestion
    - Maximum value: `2000` when batch operations are disabled and `100` when batch operations are enabled for the endpoints
```

>     - Maximum value: `2000` when batch operations are disabled and `100` when batch operations are enabled for an endpoint

Author: ```suggestion
    - Maximum value: `2000` when **Batch Operation** is disabled and `100` when **Batch Operation** is enabled for an endpoint
```

    - Minimum value: `1`
    - Unit: millisecond

- **Max Rows**: the maximum number of rows that the endpoint can operate or return.

    - Default value: `50`
    - Maximum value: `2000` when **Batch Operation** is disabled and `100` when **Batch Operation** is enabled for an endpoint
    - Minimum value: `1`

- **Description** (Optional): the description of the endpoint.

#### Advanced properties

- **Tag**: the tag used for identifying a group of endpoints.
- **Batch Operation**: this property is visible only when the request method is `POST`, `PUT`, or `DELETE`. When **Batch Operation** is enabled, you can operate on multiple rows in a single request. For example, you can insert multiple rows of data in a single `POST` request by adding an array of data objects in the `--data-raw` option of your curl command when calling the endpoint.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > If the request method of your endpoint is `DELETE` and **Batch Operation** is enabled, you need to use `%2C` instead of comma (`,`) to separate the rows to be deleted in curl code, such as `/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>?id=${id}%2C${id}`. This is because comma (`,`) is a reserved character in URLs and cannot be used directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > If the request method of your endpoint is `DELETE` and **Batch Operation** is enabled, you need to use `%2C` instead of comma (`,`) to separate the rows to be deleted in your curl command, such as `/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>?id=${id}%2C${id}`. This is because comma (`,`) is a reserved character in URLs and cannot be used directly.
```

    >
    > - The code examples are generated based on the properties and parameters of the endpoint.
    > - The online environment is available only after you deploy the endpoint.
    > - Currently, TiDB Cloud Data Service only provides the curl code example.

>     Here is an example of a curl code snippet for a `POST` request:

Author: ```suggestion
    Here is an example of a curl code snippet for a `POST` request with **Batch Operation** enabled:
```

    > - The online environment is available only after you deploy the endpoint.
    > - Currently, TiDB Cloud only provides the curl code example.

>     An example of the curl code example for the `POST` request is as follows:

Reviewer 3: Here is an example of a curl code snippet for a POST request

>     An example of the curl code example for the `POST` request is as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
    Here is an example of a curl code snippet for a POST request:
```

    ```bash
    curl --digest --user '<Public Key>:<Private Key>' \

>       --request POST 'https://<region>.data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<App ID>/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>' \

Author: 在 https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14244/files#diff-a53e9c5591977fb7a9aee0ca453d5c0c9a39aa80422a028990388bf0d9260e03R297-R300 说明了下

>       --header 'endpoint-type: draft'

Author: ```suggestion
      --header 'content-type: application/json'\
      --header 'endpoint-type: draft'
```

    curl --digest --user '<Public Key>:<Private Key>' \

>       --request GET 'https://<region>.data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<App ID>/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>' \

Reviewer 3: You are saying a POST request but showing GET example ???

>       --request GET 'https://<region>.data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<App ID>/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>' \

Author: ```suggestion
      --request POST 'https://<region>.data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<App ID>/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>' \
```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - By requesting the regional domain `<region>.data.tidbcloud.com`, you can directly access the endpoint in the region where the TiDB cluster is located.
    > - Alternatively, you can also request the global domain `data.tidbcloud.com` without specifying a region. In this way, TiDB Cloud Data Service will internally redirect the request to the target region, but this might result in additional latency. If you choose this way, make sure to add the `--location-trusted` option to your curl command when calling an endpoint.

5. Paste the code example in your application, edit the example according to your need, and then run it.

    - You need to replace the `<Public Key>` and `<Private Key>` placeholders with your API key. For more information, refer to [Manage an API key](/tidb-cloud/data-service-api-key.md).
    - If the request method of your endpoint is `POST` or `PUT`, fill in the `--data-raw` option according to the rows of data that you want to operate.

>         - For endpoints with batch operations enabled, the `--data-raw` option accepts an array of data objects so you can operate multiple rows of data using one endpoint.
>         - For endpoints with batch operations not enabled, the `--data-raw` option only accepts one data object.
> 
>     - If the request method of your endpoint is `DELETE` and the batch operation is enabled for the endpoint, you need to use `%2C` instead of comma (`,`) to separate the rows to be deleted, such as `/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>?id=${id}%2C${id}`. This is because comma (`,`) is a reserved character in URLs and cannot be used directly.

Author: ```suggestion
        - For endpoints with **Batch Operation** enabled, the `--data-raw` option accepts an array of data objects so you can operate multiple rows of data using one endpoint.
        - For endpoints with **Batch Operation** not enabled, the `--data-raw` option only accepts one data object.

    - If the request method of your endpoint is `DELETE` and **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint, you need to use `%2C` instead of comma (`,`) to separate the rows to be deleted, such as `/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>?id=${id}%2C${id}`. This is because comma (`,`) is a reserved character in URLs and cannot be used directly.
```

>     - If the request method of your endpoint is `DELETE` and **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint, you need to use `%2C` instead of comma (`,`) to separate the rows to be deleted, such as `/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>?id=${id}%2C${id}`. This is because comma (`,`) is a reserved character in URLs and cannot be used directly.

Author: ```suggestion
    - If the request method of your endpoint is `DELETE` and **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint, you need to use `%2C` instead of comma (`,`) to separate the rows to be deleted in curl code, such as `/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>?id=${id}%2C${id}`. This is because comma (`,`) is a reserved character in URLs and cannot be used directly.
```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - By requesting the regional domain `<region>.data.tidbcloud.com`, you can directly access the endpoint in the region where the TiDB cluster is located.
    > - Alternatively, you can also request the global domain `data.tidbcloud.com` without specifying a region. In this way, TiDB Cloud Data Service will internally redirect the request to the target region, but this might result in additional latency. If you choose this way, make sure to add the `--location-trusted` option to your curl command when calling an endpoint.

5. Paste the code example in your application, edit the example according to your need, and then run it.

    - You need to replace the `<Public Key>` and `<Private Key>` placeholders with your API key. For more information, refer to [Manage an API key](/tidb-cloud/data-service-api-key.md).

>     - If the request method of your endpoint is `POST` or `PUT`, fill in the `--data-raw` option according to the rows of data that you want to operate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the request method of your endpoint is `POST` or `PUT`, fill in the `--data-raw` option according to the rows of data that you want to operate on.
```

>         - For endpoints with **Batch Operation** enabled, the `--data-raw` option accepts an array of data objects so you can operate multiple rows of data using one endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - For endpoints with **Batch Operation** enabled, the `--data-raw` option accepts an array of data objects so you can operate on multiple rows of data using one endpoint.
```

        - For endpoints with **Batch Operation** not enabled, the `--data-raw` option only accepts one data object.

>     - If the request method of your endpoint is `DELETE` and **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint, you need to use `%2C` instead of comma (`,`) to separate the rows to be deleted in curl code, such as `/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>?id=${id}%2C${id}`. This is because comma (`,`) is a reserved character in URLs and cannot be used directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the request method of your endpoint is `DELETE` and **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint, you need to use `%2C` instead of comma (`,`) to separate the rows to be deleted in your curl command, such as `/endpoint/<Endpoint Path>?id=${id}%2C${id}`. This is because comma (`,`) is a reserved character in URLs and cannot be used directly.
```
